 1.1. Purpose

 1.1. 目的

Common Lisp is intended to meet these goals:

Common Lisp 致力于达到以下目标：

Commonality

通用性

    Common Lisp originated in an attempt to focus the work of several implementation groups, each of which was constructing successor implementations of MacLisp for different computers. These implementations had begun to diverge because of the differences in the implementation environments: microcoded personal computers (Zetalisp, Spice Lisp), commercial timeshared computers (NIL-the ``New Implementation of Lisp''), and supercomputers (S-1 Lisp). While the differences among the several implementation environments of necessity will continue to force certain incompatibilities among the implementations, Common Lisp serves as a common dialect to which each implementation makes any necessary extensions.
    
    在Common Lisp诞生前，各个开发团体在各自的计算机上都有着自己的MacLisp实现，彼此之间撰写的代码并不能无缝兼容。在这种背景下，为了让各个开发团体可以协同开发（专注于工作本身，而不必去烦恼Lisp方言标准的问题），作为MacLisp的继承者的Common Lisp诞生了。在一开始，导致各种Lisp实现分歧的原因是人们在不同的实现环境下创造了各自的的Lisp方言：比如在微码个人电脑（microcoded personal computers）上运行的方言如Zetalisp，Spice Lisp，在商业时享电脑（commercial timeshared computers）上运行的NIL-the ''New Implementation of Lisp'' 和在超级电脑（supercomputers）上运行的S-1 Lisp等。这些Lisp实现的运行机器环境上的差异，导致各种Lisp实现一直不兼容。在这种情况下，Common Lisp的价值便体现出来了，他是一种能运行在不同的机器上，在必要时也能使用任何扩展（extensions）的Lisp通用方言。
    
Portability

可移植性

    Common Lisp intentionally excludes features that cannot be implemented easily on a broad class of machines. On the one hand, features that are difficult or expensive to implement on hardware without special microcode are avoided or provided in a more abstract and efficiently implementable form. (Examples of this are the invisible forwarding pointers and locatives of Zetalisp. Some of the problems that they solve are addressed in different ways in Common Lisp.) On the other hand, features that are useful only on certain ``ordinary'' or ``commercial'' processors are avoided or made optional. (An example of this is the type declaration facility, which is useful in some implementations and completely ignored in others. Type declarations are completely optional and for correct programs affect only efficiency, not semantics.) Common Lisp is designed to make it easy to write programs that depend as little as possible on machine-specific characteristics, such as word length, while allowing some variety of implementation techniques.
    
    Common Lisp有意地摒弃了那些不能普遍运行在各种机器上的特性。一方面，那些在硬件上一旦离开微码就难以实现的（或者说实现起来需要花费大量资源的）特性会被摒弃掉，或者提供一个更加抽象和有效的实现形式。例如转发指针（forwarding pointers）和Zetalisp的位置格（locatives）等，而他们在Common Lisp中解决问题的方式是不一样的。另一方面，那些只能在特定的“普通的”或“商业的”处理器上使用的特性也会被摒弃掉，或者设为可选的特性。举个例子，类型声明机制（facility）在某些实现中是很有用的，但是在其他实现中却是完全不可行的。对正确的程序来说，类型声明只会影响其效率，而不会影响语义，因此类型声明完全是可选择的（而不是必需的）。 设计Common Lisp的目的是使它容易编写程序，尽可能少地依赖于特定机器的特性，比如字长等，同时也允许一些各种各样的实现（implementation）技术。

Consistency

一致性

    Most Lisp implementations are internally inconsistent in that by default the interpreter and compiler may assign different semantics to correct programs. This semantic difference stems primarily from the fact that the interpreter assumes all variables to be dynamically scoped, whereas the compiler assumes all variables to be local unless explicitly directed otherwise. This difference has been the usual practice in Lisp for the sake of convenience and efficiency but can lead to very subtle bugs. The definition of Common Lisp avoids such anomalies by explicitly requiring the interpreter and compiler to impose identical semantics on correct programs so far as possible.
    
    大多数Lisp实现，内部都是不一致的。默认情况下，解释器和编译器可以分配不同的语义去纠正程序。会产生这种语义之分的根本原因是：解释器假定所有的变量都是在一个动态范围内的值，然而编译器却是假定所有的变量都是确定的值（除非另有说明）。这在Lisp应用中是司空见惯的，它可以提高效率和便携性，不过也可能导致一些微妙的bugs。因此，Common Lisp明确定义了要求解释器和编译器使用相同的语义，去尽可能地避免这种异常以纠正程序。
    
Expressiveness

表达方式多样

    Common Lisp culls what experience has shown to be the most useful and understandable constructs from not only MacLisp but also Interlisp, other Lisp dialects, and other programming languages. Constructs judged to be awkward or less useful have been excluded. (An example is the store construct of MacLisp.)

    Common Lisp 从MacLisp、Interlisp、其他Lisp方言甚至是其他编程语言中精心挑选出最实用且易于理解的结构。此外还删除掉了一些笨拙的和不实用的结构。（比如MacLisp的存储结构就被剔除掉了）

Compatibility

兼容性

    Unless there is a good reason to the contrary, Common Lisp strives to be compatible with Lisp Machine Lisp, MacLisp, and Interlisp, roughly in that order.

    除非有明确的理由，不然Common Lisp总是致力于与Lisp Machine Lisp、MacLisp和Interlisp相兼容，兼容性按排列顺序递减。

Efficiency

效率

    Common Lisp has a number of features designed to facilitate the production of high-quality compiled code in those implementations whose developers care to invest effort in an optimizing compiler. One implementation of Common Lisp, namely S-1 Lisp, already has a compiler that produces code for numerical computations that is competitive in execution speed to that produced by a Fortran compiler [11]. The S-1 Lisp compiler extends the work done in MacLisp to produce extremely efficient numerical code [19].

    对于那些注重效率的开发者们来说，Common Lisp有一系列特性可以帮助他们在他们的实现（implementation）上编写出高质量编译代码。一个Common Lisp实现（S-1 Lisp）已经有一个编译器可以编译出数值计算的代码，这些代码的执行速度可以与Fortran媲美【11】。可以这么说，S-1 Lisp编译器做的工作，比在MacLisp中的关于数值代码的生成工作还要好【19】。

Power

强大

    Common Lisp is a descendant of MacLisp, which has traditionally placed emphasis on providing system-building tools. Such tools may in turn be used to build the user-level packages such as Interlisp provides; these packages are not, however, part of the Common Lisp core specification. It is expected such packages will be built on top of the Common Lisp core.

    Common Lisp 是MacLisp的后代，后者一直以来侧重于提供系统建造工具。这些工具可以用来制造用户级别的包（比如Interlisp的provides），然而，这些包不是Common Lisp的核心规程。展望未来，可以预见这些包将会被纳入Common Lisp的核心中。
    
Stability

稳定性

    It is intended that Common Lisp will change only slowly and with due deliberation. The various dialects that are supersets of Common Lisp may serve as laboratories within which to test language extensions, but such extensions will be added to Common Lisp only after careful examination and experimentation.

    Common Lisp的每次改变都将会是缓慢的且会经过慎重审议。各种各样的Lisp方言都是Common Lisp的超集，他们作为实验室去测试一些语言拓展，并且这些拓展经过一系列小心的测试和实验后才能被加进Common Lisp里。

The goals of Common Lisp are thus very close to those of Standard Lisp [31] and Portable Standard Lisp [51]. Common Lisp differs from Standard Lisp primarily in incorporating more features, including a richer and more complicated set of data types and more complex control structures.

因此，可以这么说，Common Lisp的目标很接近于那些Standard Lisp（标准Lisp[31]）和Portable Standard Lisp（可移植的标准Lisp[51]）。但是相对于Standard Lisp来说，Common Lisp的主要不同之处是它包含了更多的特性，包括更丰富、更复杂的数据类型的设置，和更复杂的控制结构。

This book is intended to be a language specification rather than an implementation specification (although implementation notes are scattered throughout the text). It defines a set of standard language concepts and constructs that may be used for communication of data structures and algorithms in the Common Lisp dialect. This set of concepts and constructs is sometimes referred to as the ``core Common Lisp language'' because it contains conceptually necessary or important features. It is not necessarily implementationally minimal. While many features could be defined in terms of others by writing Lisp code, and indeed may be implemented that way, it was felt that these features should be conceptually primitive so that there might be agreement among all users as to their usage. (For example, bignums and rational numbers could be implemented as Lisp code given operations on fixnums. However, it is important to the conceptual integrity of the language that they be regarded by the user as primitive, and they are useful enough to warrant a standard definition.)

本书

For the most part, this book defines a programming language, not a programming environment. A few interfaces are defined for invoking such standard programming tools as a compiler, an editor, a program trace facility, and a debugger, but very little is said about their nature or operation. It is expected that one or more extensive programming environments will be built using Common Lisp as a foundation, and will be documented separately.



------------------
There are now many implementations of Common Lisp, some programmed by research groups in universities and some by companies that sell them commercially, and a number of useful programming environments have indeed grown up around these implementations. What is more, all the goals stated above have been achieved, most notably that of portability. Moving large bodies of Lisp code from one computer to another is now routine.
------------------
